hello welcome thanks for coming seat
right down in the front seat front row
my name is Rob Alexander I'm a Solutions
Architect based out of Seattle we'd be
talking for the next solid hour about
elastic block store and covering
everything from what makes up the
service all the characteristics of it
performance best practices around
reliability security and performance I'm
going to try to save some time at the
end for questions if I don't I promise
I'll stay in the back hang out in the
hallway and answer all your questions
that you have so let's let's get into it
real quick a piece of housekeeping the
folks that actually build our service
services our storage services are having
an office hours details are up there
please go check that out if you want to
talk to the engineers and first I wanted
to kind of orient ourselves in the world
of storage site so we know what space
we're playing with with block storage so
three large categories of storage
service options so the first and what
we're talking about today is block
storage where you know operating system
interacts with a device at a bite level
and transfers data a fixed size block so
that is best represented by Amazon
Elastic box store which is what we're
talking about today file based storage
system something like Amazon Elastic
file system moves up a step in the
abstraction and instead of direct a bite
level interaction with a storage device
you're now talking filesystem semantics
so that's something abstracted by a
network file system like NFS and the
best representation at AWS is the EFS
and finally object storage where you
move up yet another degree in
abstraction where your application is
actually talking at preferably with a
restful interface HTTP to a web service
where you're storing objects with API is
very simple API calls get put
delete objects and obviously Amazon's s3
is our key service offering here with
glacier also being one of our object
store offerings so within the block
storage world at AWS we kind of divided
into three specific block storage
offerings the first of those being what
was our first block store offering which
launched with ec2 back in two thousand
six over ten years ago which is ec2
instance store an instant store is the
actual physical disks that are local to
the physical host hosting your instance
so the key characteristics of ec2
instance store is that it's
non-persistent it only exists for the
life of the instance so if you stop the
instance or you terminate the instance
whatever data is on that local store is
gone it will obviously endure a reboot
but any API commands that that do away
with the instance the data goes with it
the data is not replicated by default
you can of course do some replication
schemes on the data itself between
instances but by default there's no
replication service offered with
instance store and same with snapshots
support there's no out-of-the-box
offering for backups that's also
something that you will have to do for
instance store and there is SSD and HDD
offerings for instance store and then we
get into the into the EV into categories
of EBS so we divide that into our SSD
back so solid state drive backed volume
types and those are the general purpose
too and the provision die ops volume
types and then the HDD d so the magnetic
spinning disk fact volumes which are the
throughput optimized the st1 and the
cold HDD the SC 1 so you can see that
the 33 Stratos offerings so what is e BS
BBs is block storage as a service so
with an API call you're able to
configure a set amount of volume blocks
with certain performance characteristics
and then
attach those to an ec2 instance so as a
storage service it's obviously you're
accessing these blocks over the network
and we'll talk about a lot of those
characteristics that make that an
important thing to consider with EBS and
it's also very important to note that
the EBS is not a volume is not a
specific hard drive if you call an 8 the
API call it creative volume we don't go
tag a hard drive that's yours EBS is a
massive distributed system and as a
massive distributed system your volume
is a logical volume and it's it's
comprised of blocks that are distributed
across many many physical devices so
that leads to a lot of the performance
reliability and availability
characteristics will talk about volumes
are specific to an availability zone so
they need to be accessed by an instance
that's in that same availability zone
they can persist independent of the
instance itself so you can attach and
detach you need to unmount those file
systems from your instances first to
have a good experience attaching and
detaching from the operating systems
perspective but there you know and route
obviously you're not going to go
detaching that one but other than those
two caveats the volumes themselves are
independent of the ec2 instances and you
know EBS volume can only be attached to
one instance at a time but you can have
many volumes attached to a single
instance so it's very common and we
ought we recommend to separate out ooh
and data volumes and that's for a lot of
reasons one I just mentioned you know
you keep the boot nice clean and small
and then your data volumes you can move
around very flexibly it also allows you
to divide up exactly what workloads are
running against which volume types
so each block that comprises your your
EBS logical volume is also replicated
within the same availability zone and
it's important to note that you're only
paying for the storage you've allocated
for the volume you're not paying for the
replicated data but this leads to some
very interesting service characteristics
so as an availability target five nines
of service availability so access to
your volumes and for durability so the
durability of the data that's on your
volumes point 1 to point 2 AFR and your
failure rate so that's about it's about
20 times greater than your average you
know enterprise-class hard disk drive
which is about four percent so that
means if you run day and day out about a
thousand EBS volumes for a year you can
expect to lose one or two which is why
we also have the snapshot service so
these are point in time backups of the
data on your volumes that are stored in
s3 which is a regional service it's not
tied to a specific availability zone and
it obviously has a greater magnitude
with eleven nines of durability with s3
so you have a much greater magnitude of
data durability for your snapshots so as
snapshot itself how does it work so the
first time you take a snapshot it's
going to copy every modified block on
your volume 2 s 3 any subsequent
snapshots to the same volume we're going
to be incremental so they're only going
to evaluate what's changed since that
first one and move up those change
blocks and deleting snapshots within
that volume sequence of snapshots it
will only remove data that's exclusive
to that snapshot so what can you do with
a snapshot so with a snapshot you can
create an Amazon machine image so
blueprint for launching more instances
and obviously when you launch those
instances they'll have whatever data and
characteristics were part of that
snapshot you can create new volumes
either in the same availability zone or
different availability zone and you can
also create a new
sighs of volume so if you wanted to take
a snapshot and then create a larger
volume size you could do that with a
snapshot and then you can copy them to
other regions copy them to other
accounts this is a very common dr
strategy to keep you know golden images
of all your key applications and move
them around to other regions for
disaster recovery you can also share
snapshots so you can either share them
with other internal accounts that you
have within your company or you can
share them publicly and I like to point
out a very good example of this is
there's a whole wealth of public data
sets that are available as snapshots so
you can literally go and look them up
and launch the snapshot that will will
load up with data whether that census
data genomic data weather data
transportation data and it's all
snapshot based and obviously all of the
marketplace amies that you're launching
whether that's amazon linux or windows
those are all based on and backed by EBS
snapshots so another characteristics of
the EBS service is EBS optimized and EBS
optimized is about the network bandwidth
to EBS so by default if I fire up a c3 2
x-large and I use my favorite bandwidth
testing tool whether that's I / for net
pipe or pick your pick your tool you'll
find that a c3 to extra-large has about
100 25 megabytes of throughput a network
bandwidth allocated to it but that
bandwidth is shared not just to the
network communication to your EBS
volumes but everything else that you
might be doing with that instance so
whether that's other ec2 instances or
accessing the internet as three
databases that 120 megabytes a second is
for everything EBS optimized though if
you enable EBS optimized gives you
dedicated bandwidth to EBS so I
basically effectively doubled my
bandwidth there and I get a dedicated
hundred 25 megabytes a second
specifically to EBS so this is enabled
by default and a lot of our newer
instance type c for SD 2s and 4s b-2s
which means it comes in no extra cost
some of the other generation instances
that do not have it enabled by default
you can enable it for a nominal cost it
can be enabled at instance launch or you
can do it later it's just a stop-start
of the instance to enable it and it's
not an option on a few instance types
that the top end of the c3 r3 and I tues
the a tech sells those have the full 10
gig that was available to the physical
host so it's kind of up to you to do
what you want with the 10 gig and if you
want to know on a per instance type
basis exactly how much bandwidth is
allocated to each one free BS optimized
that's in that link down there at the
bottom and the last characteristic of
the service that I like to point out is
encryption so encryption with EBS is
just dead simple it's literally a check
and it boot or data volumes can be
encrypted you can attach both encrypted
and unencrypted volumes to the same
instance type it's supported by any of
our current generation instance types
there's no volume performance impact
snapshots are encrypted data at rest is
encrypted data flight is encrypted any
snapshot you create from an encryption
snapshot is also encrypted and there's
no extra cost and it literally is a
check box you see there i'm creating my
volume i am going to check the
encryption off you go so now we covered
all the characteristics of the service
let's let's dive into the actual volume
types that we mentioned in the beginning
so i mentioned we have two platforms one
based on solid state drives and one
based on hard disk drives and you know
you might ask why we did that and have
very different performance
characteristics and very different
physics related to them so solid state
disks obviously our Ram basis no moving
parts and the flash do you know the more
banks you stack in there the more
parallel I oh you can drive to an SSD
and all points on the disk are equally
accessible so they're fantastic for you
know random i/o
penalized for any random whereas on a
spinning hard disk you know you have to
get that head exactly to where you need
to read and that can take in the seat
times or some of the most performance
impacting remaining performance blockers
in modern computing so but if you get
that head in the right place our disk
drives can deliver some serious
sequential performance sequential
throughput and at a very compelling
price point so there's still a lot of
room for the hard disk drive platforms
and that's why we still can't just this
year we came out with two new volume
types that are based on spinning hard
drives so again we have the to the gp2
and I 01 for SSD and we have the 24 hour
disk drive st 1 SC 1 so how do you
decide like how you should be using
these how do you think about these
volume types so the question I would
pose to you is what do you consider more
important for your workload that I ops
or is it throughput or do you not know
yet or do you not really care and that's
an easy answer so gp2 is our jack of all
trades so gp2 is has a dead-simple
provisioning model you tell us how much
stores you want and for every gigabyte
your provision you get three I ops it
has a burst model so up to a terabyte in
size you can book first up to 3,000 I
ops no matter what you provision so you
have your baseline of one two three and
then you have 3,000 to burst over a
terabyte in size you will get what you
have provisioned and baseline a volume
can go up to 160 megabytes a second and
throughput single-digit millisecond
latency is obviously because we're
dealing with SSDs here and the capacity
is up to 16 terabytes for single volume
I will point out all these storage
numbers that I am giving you or even
though I'm saying gigabytes it's gabi
bites and I'm just not going to say that
over and over but we provision
everything at EBS base to so it's not a
typical storage world of base 10
everything you see is based to which
means it's not you're actually getting
about seven percent more than what you
might think you're getting and when I
talk about I ops with EBS we benchmark
everything and measure everything that
gets the 16 Keva bite that's the last
time I'm saying that 16 kb block size so
when I say up to 10,000 I ops on GP to
volume that's at 16k you can do some
quick math 10,000 times 16 k is your 160
megabytes a second of maximum throughput
volume so these are great for just about
everything you know they're not our
absolute fastest and they're not our
absolute cheapest but they fit the
widest range of workloads so there are
default for all of our boot volumes
they're great for bursty workloads and
they're great if you just you don't know
exactly how much I ops you need you
don't you're not able to say on a very
consistent basis exactly what you need
so here's just a quick diagram of how
the burst and base work so 100 I ops is
the minimum so even if you provision a
one gig volume you're not going to get
three I ops 2 that that would not be
good 100 I ops baseline it ramps up to
you see just over three terabytes you
get to the max of 10,000 and then that's
the burst up to 3,000 for volume sizes
up to a terabyte so you see there at a
300 gig I've got a thousand I ops and I
can burst to 3,000 and so how does this
burst model actually work is based on a
token bucket and for gp2 you're always
accumulating I ops constantly at three
aubs per every gig gigabyte you
provision into this bucket the bucket
can go up to 5.4 million credits and it
actually starts so all the volumes you
create start with a full token bucket
and then you can spin that hit 3,000
3,000 I opposite per second which is the
burst
so burst like seems like that's a very
transient thing it might be things
measured in seconds you might be able to
get out but it actually is a very
significant amount of time that you can
actually burst so for example a 300 gig
volume you can burst solid 3,000 I ops
for 43 minutes I think burst is actually
misleading term but I'm not in marketing
500 is an hour and then the you know
closer you get to terabyte the closer
you get to infinity for the burst so
that you get up to 10 hours of solid
burst if you're up on the 900 kick so
how do you get Eddie watch a birth
there's a metric for burst balance in
gp2 you can see here I burst it for a
solid hour you can see my plateau and
that's where i was at 900,000 right I
ops over five minutes so these cloud
watch metrics for GP two and five minute
increments so you got to do a little
math so that's 3,000 I op so you can see
I ran on our I burst right there and
floored it and then it dropped down to
my baseline which was half of that
450,000 drops so back to our question
you'll cover gp2 we'll stick with I ops
for now so the first question to ask if
I ops is the most important thing for
your workload is how many I ops do you
need so if the answer to that is greater
than 65,000 then the options are I too
of course this slide is now outdated
because we announced by three this
morning so why 65,000 that is the
maximum amount if you do 65,000 x 16 k
but that's the 10 gig of bandwidth so 10
gig is currently as of today the most
EBS bandwidth you can get to single
instance so if you're if you're driving
more than 10 gig of vaio traffic then
you need to consider something like I to
which is which is our I oh you know
specialized died 02 itself does over
300,000 random reads and writes the a330
now
today is 9 times that so up to 3 million
so it's a different category of number
of I ops but if you're in the range of
65,000 and below then the next question
is what are your latency requirements so
if your latency requirements are in
Mike's the target microseconds your back
to the I to again so the i2 i3 is
specialized for again local instance
store local SSDs the lowest latency you
can get but if you're in the same single
digit millisecond category then what's
more important cost of performance but
we talked about gp2 that's the cost
model for the I ops base work lot
workloads it's the most cost efficient
volume type but if performance is your
main driver for your workload then we're
back to provision I up so the IO one
volume type so when I say performance
what do I mean and it's really a couple
of things so first of all you see the
numbers everything's doubled from gp2 so
instead of 10,000 I ops as the as the
top end it's 20,000 throughput also
doubled instead of 160 is 320 but it's
also the consistency of performance
that's most important with provision I
ops so provisioned I ops you set exactly
how much you want and we guaranteed to
deliver that within ten percent of that
number ninety-nine point nine percent of
the time gp2 is ninety-nine percent of
the time so you get another nine of
consistency of I ops delivery so
provisioned I ops is really ideal for
mission critical workloads where you
have a consistent level of I ops and you
know what that is and you can set that
and you have a high degree of guarantee
to meet that target so it's ideal for
critical applications databases with
sustained I ox and the provisioning
model is a little different you can you
can scale up much faster so it's not
storage based you can turn the dial at a
50 to 1 ratio so at a 400 gigs size you
can have 20,000 I ops to a volume so
very significant for like small hot data
sets
provision I ops so what if throughput is
the defining performance characteristic
for your workload again we start with
the first question what's more important
small random i/o or large sequential I
oh and if you're doing small random i/o
your back over to the SSD side of the
house as I mentioned on the
characteristics of what makes hard disk
drives good is there good it's
sequential throughput large block
sequential throughput so again aggregate
throughput this goes back to the 10 gig
again except on the throughput side of
the house do you need more than one
thousand two hundred fifty megabytes a
second which is 10 gig of throughput if
you do need more and I recommend you
check out our d to which are so is our
dense storage instance type which has up
to 48 terabytes of local spinning hard
disk and it can do upwards of 3
gigabytes a second of sequential
throughput if your throughput needs are
less than 10 gigabits so less than 1,250
megabytes a second then again what
what's more important cost of
performance and if its performance then
st one is the volume type you want to
look at so st one is the first of our
throughput provision so instead of I ops
now we're talking about megabytes a
second it's similar to gp2 and that you
dial in amount of storage and you get a
certain amount of throughput so the
baseline is forty megabytes a second per
terabyte a provision up to a max of 500
per volume and it also has a burst model
so every terabyte you provision you get
250 megabytes of burst up to 500 and the
capacity model is a little different the
smallest volume size is 500 gig and it
goes up to 16 terabytes too so 500 gig
these are not designed to be boot
volumes actually they can't be boot
forums so these are very much designed
to be datum for data only so again ideal
for large block high throughput
sequential workloads
so here's a quick look at the burst and
base model for st one you can see you
very quickly ramp up to the burst so a
two terabyte volume size you're already
at max burst so as long as you have
burst credits in your bucket a two
terabyte st one volume is equivalent in
performance to a 13 terabyte volume
because they both have the maximum 500
megabytes of burst and there's a quick
example of an eight terre by kind of
halfway there in the middle 320 baseline
and obviously the burst of 500 so the
burst buckets again so a little
different with the the throughput volume
types in that you're still accumulating
the starless full bucket that you get
when you create the volume but the
volume scale I mean the bucket scales
with the volume so the bigger the volume
the bigger the bucket so again spending
at the burst but if I have an eight
terre by volume that bucket is now a
terabytes and credit and the idea is
that when you create a volume it comes
with the burst credits that will allow
you to do a full volume scan of that
volume
so last but not least on the throughput
side of the house for your workload if
the most important is cost cold HDD so
that's our SC 1 volume type and this is
based on the same platform as st1 it's
just the performance characteristics are
a little bit more modest so for you
trade baseline and burst numbers for
know half the price basically I mean a
very compelling cost price so instead of
40 we're at 12 per terabyte up to a max
of 192 and the burst is also half so
instead of 500 your max burst is now 250
so these are ideal for things again
large sequential workloads but maybe not
something you're going to be full
scanning multiple times a day maybe
you're only doing it one time a day so
whether that's logging or archiving or
backups but customers are finding some
very interesting use cases because as
we'll see in a second that the cost is
very compelling and the throughput
characteristics and the burst is still
very very good much better than you
would get from any commodity hard drive
so real quick the burstyn base here and
again you can see at the max volume type
you don't ever get to the actual max
burst for the volume size so even at 16
T same idea bucket is sized to the to
the volume and you can spend it at the
burst 80 so there's a kind of the map of
the volume types there's some questions
to ask yourself when you're looking at
how you should judge these volumes how
used to choose them and use them but
what's important is that this is not a
all-or-nothing decision so we'll get to
a few use cases and what that means but
real quick prices so GP to tens it's a
gig that's it you don't pay for i 0 or
anything you just pay for the storage of
provision and you get the three two one
I ops ratio I one's a little different
you pay for both the storage and the
amount of I op supervision st1 is
you know four and a half cents a gig for
through provisioned and then SC 1 is
half of that so two and a half cents per
gig so to a nap since a gig that's you
know that's cheaper than s3 so it opens
up some really interesting use cases
when instead of an object store you need
like a POSIX file system to be available
to you in an EBS volume that you can
attach and have you know data sets that
can roam around and attach different
instances and then finally snapshot
storage itself is five cents a gig month
so I mentioned it's not an all one
decision so you know the volume types
the flexibility of EBS as a service
really starts to exercise itself when
you can choose multiple hybrid volumes
for a workload so you don't have to
choose all st1 or or all GP to the mix
and match even on in at the same
instance for different workload
characteristics so we'll go through a
few use cases for these hybrid volumes
so librado which does monitoring and
metrics for the cloud they're doing a
talked about their experience migrating
to EBS for their Cassandra workloads
which stores all the time series data
and they were running on I 2 and they
migrated to c4 with EBS and they were
able so they store the actual data files
themselves so the the cassander SS tempt
SS tables so you know a very intensive
small random workloads dedicated gp2 and
in the streaming log so the transaction
log the commit log for Cassandra goes
off to st one so each Cassandra node has
two different volume types mounted to it
for very different workloads and you
know with this they significantly
reduced their meantime to recovery
because they're not having to hydrate a
whole I to instance again if an eye to
fails and they saved significant thirty
five percent in cost and here's another
one's index Zendesk with their elk stack
so they did something very interesting
with cheering their data they were able
to not only reduce their costs by six
% but increase the amount of data they
were storing by three times in there
elasticsearch cluster by tearing out two
different instance types so for the
really hot stuff they put it on GP too
so that's for the first week of data and
then for you know the warm stuff they
went out to sequential to st 1482 30
days and then and then 30 to 60 days out
they used the SC ones and then in for
has a case study out there so they still
run their actual sequel server database
on I tues but they do their backups
using st one so they have st one of
volumes attached to their I twos and
they do different kinds of backups to
different volumes and then they actually
snapshot those volumes so they found
that their backups are actually
significantly faster by offloading that
to the volumes themselves thirty percent
faster and then EMR so are managed to do
framework is also supports EBS and has
some very interesting ways to mix hybrid
with EMR so mr again it has very
different workload characteristic
depending what you're doing but very
common pattern we see is customers using
gp2 for the actual yarn workload so the
really small stuff and all the shuffle
spill Tim pops are very random small i/o
does very well in gp2 and then the
actual HD of s for the storage of Hadoop
is very large sequential i/o is very
consistent so that's dedicated to HDFS
with st 1 and then mounting multiple h
st one volumes because Hadoop is really
good at going against parallel mount
points so it can dedicate cores and
tasks to each mount point so lots of st
ones and then the gp2 off to the side
for the yarn stuff and that'll be in the
deck later you can see this is what you
would feed EMR to do exactly what I said
so dedicate certain
sites to different volume types all
right so let's dive into some very
specific stuff on performance so we
talked about these bursts buckets and
how we credit you and how iOS our work
how do we actually count that as a
service like how do we say you're using
a certain number I ops to subtract from
your bucket so with with counting I ops
for gp2 and I 01 we merge sequential iOS
up to a max size of 256 kb and that's
both to minimize the eye of charges on
io 1 so if you're doing sequential
workload you'll get charged a lot less I
oh and maximize burst 4gb too and keep
in mind this is all logical merging
we're not doing anything physical I know
that it's going to matter to some of you
and I have this boxcar so the Box cargo
is representing the maximum amount of
throughput you can put to EBS so each
one of these is 256 k 4g p 2 and r 0 1
and as an example sending down for
random IOT's of size 64k they're not
sequential so I'm not going to pack
those into one box car so we're going to
count for iOS against you even though
all that capacity was still there but if
you send those 64k down is sequential we
will be able to recognize that logically
merge those iOS and even though it was
for iOS to you we're only credit you won
against your burst credits and similarly
if you send down a very large one that's
obviously larger than two and 56k we
have to chop that up so if you send down
a mag I 04 gp2 and I 01 I'm going to
chop that up into two and 56 kb TS and
charge you for what about st one and SC
1 so they're a little bit different in
those case we merge up to a meg instead
of 256k as they're obviously designed
for large sequential iOS and so again if
you send for random iOS down to
us on st one or SC 1 volume at 64 k
we're not going to be able to merge them
it's going to take four units so you'll
get charged for four megabytes of burst
even though you only sent much less data
than that so here's more ideal so you
send down for sequential iOS each i/o is
a full Meg you're taking advantage of
the full capacity of the of the boxcar
and you get charged for iOS and you
transferred for megs so perfect and
here's where things get interesting when
you when you have mixed workloads
against st one and SC 1 because in some
cases you know the sequential iOS
they'll be able to be counted as a folio
but the randoms are going to still take
up a full unit of capacity a full one
meg so you'll end up again being charged
for 4 Meg's but you've only transferred
about 1.4 Meg's so how does this look
when you actually look at your birth
bout balance when you're transferring
one mag so this is 5 this is full out
for three hours against the burst credit
you can see I was able to burst for
about three hours on a 4 terabytes for a
terabyte volume if I'm doing random it's
actually going to drain at the same time
because every single random or small
block is going to count and use the same
amount of burst I'm just not going to be
transferring a lot so I'm not going to
be getting what's on the box and to
represent that even more graphically is
if it was 500 megabytes for three hours
that's 5.4 terabytes of data transferred
but if I did that in 16 k random I would
only transfer 87 gig so it just
illustrates that you know what the model
is for these volume types is large block
sequential throughput so how do you
verify that you're doing the right thing
with these volume types
with Linux a good start is iostat you
look at your average request sighs
that's in 512k sectors of 52 kb so here
you can see that your operating system
is telling you doing a good job you're
transferring a full meg of average
request size perfect mom for windows
will tell you the same thing can look at
average request sighs and then cloud
watch so cloud watch has volume specific
metrics you can go and load the volume
management console you can go in the
monitoring tab and we have per volume
graphs set up for you to to see average
right size and have a juried side so
here you see we're at 128 kb which is
actually ideal this is what you want to
see this is actually the maximum you'll
see even if your operating system is
telling you you're transferring a Meg
and that's because this comes from the
hypervisors perspective this is not from
your instance type so we will work on
getting this to be more meaningful but
in the meantime know that 128 k is the
max you will saw see as your average
right size and that means you're in a
good place if you're seeing less than
that so if you're seeing something
around 64 you're most likely
interspersing some randoms in there or
some smaller block sizes and getting
your average down and if you're seeing
even less than that so 44 this means one
of two things you're either at a very
old Linux kernel so 380 or less which
did not support a few features that will
talk about or you're running Windows
sorry the windows driver also does not
does not support persistent grants so
these are features of the Zin device
driver that we currently use today in
AWS so that shows itself in the instance
itself so that's block front for the
instance and block back other drivers in
the hypervisor so we'll talk a little
bit about how that works so you
understand why kernel version is so
important so the user space process
sends down some requests to your kernel
your scheduler is running you know that
might be no up or deadlines or cfq is
going to do some things with those you
might ask you know what scheduler should
I be thinking about any SSD volume type
no up that's the default that's a
no-brainer HDD scheduler types free BS
as my favorite EBS engineer says does it
make it does it make a difference in my
scheduler and he always says definitely
maybe the fact is the performance
differential you'll see playing with
schedulers is not is going to be very
work load dependent it's not going to be
extreme difference between one or the
other I would recommend no up or
deadline play with your workload and see
what the performance differences are on
your specific workload but anyways the
the colonel and the scheduler is going
to do some things with I ops coming down
whether that's merging them or
rearranging them and then it's going to
send it in to the to the request queue
so this is a ring buffer for the Zen
device driver that interrupts between
the instance itself and the hypervisor
and it's made up of 32 requests can be
in the ring at any point in time and his
buffer so pre 38 the max size of any
request was 44 kb that was flat so with
some later enhancements the Linux kernel
you're able to the default now is 128 so
anything over a kernel version of 38 the
default will be 128 kb for a request and
you're able to tune that up to a full
meg
that's what I met windows does not
support this so Windows this is stuck at
44 and on to the actual hypervisor and
then on to EBS and actually the train
that all the train stuff in accounting
and the logical merging we discuss that
happens back in the actual service so
that's where that is now another change
happened in Linux 42 so Zen adopted the
Block in Q model in 42 afterwards so
blocking cook you did away with the old
schedulers then most of those schedulers
were very much designed for optimizing
workloads on hard disk drives and
introduced block in queue which does a
queue requests per core which is great
for ssds right because you can each core
has its own request queue you can you
know send down a lot of parallel
parallel iOS but what's good for ssds is
is not so great for our disk drives so
this is why we recommend that if you're
running on a 42 or later kernel that you
crank up the maximum request size to the
full amount the full one mag and you
might say well why is that and it's
because if you stick it out 128 and
you're sending down large block iOS so
say you send 31 Meg iOS and you're at
the default 128k those are going to get
chopped up so that's 2428 case sections
that might end up on different core
queues and by the time it gets to EBS
that looks random you know you started
with three one megabyte iOS by the time
EVS sees it it could be completely mixed
up so cranking that up to a full Meg
means those three iOS stay as one unit
in the request queue so helps with the
throughput so that's that's recommended
in general but definitely after 42 when
blocking mq comes into the scene keep in
mind the memory is allocated per device
so be careful if you're doing one Meg's
that's 32 megs of ram per device and
here's the command to actually enable it
and crank it up so it's a boot level
command
a second performance tuning we do
recommend with st1 an sc one is to crank
up the read ahead vote Reed had buffer
so this is recommended for any high
throughput workloads it's per device so
it's / actual volume the default is 128
play with this this setting will take
you up to a Meg we've seen really great
performance with to Meg for mag it all
depends on your workload but it is very
important for st 1 and for
high-throughput read workloads to to
work with the the read ahead buffer so
hopefully by now it's kind of a parent
where the balance is between throughput
versus I ops so the example here is an
i/o one volume provision I ops at 20,000
so it all depends on the actual block
size that you're sending what you can do
so on the far left side which is the
smallest block so 16k we can send the
full 20,000 and get the full throughput
if we have that 10,000 I ops but send
double the size as far as request sighs
and iOS we can still do that what we
can't do is send 10,000 64k that would
obviously be six hundred forty megabytes
to the volume I would exceed the volumes
throughput characteristics and we
couldn't do that but we can do is send
the largest amount the largest block
size for the ir one 256k at 12 1250 I
ops and that would get you to the full
throughput so it's always a spectrum
between I ops and throughput
which means when we talk about EBS
optimized bandwidth is really important
bandwidth matters that you know how much
bandwidth you have your EBS volume and
your expectations are for that workload
and how much you want to drive to the
volume so here we are with a C for large
which has 500 megabytes megabits excuse
me of bandwidth dedicated to EBS and
we've attached a two terabyte gb to
volume obviously that volume can do a
lot more than the band width that you
have to the volume so it's really not a
good match if you jump up one size to a
c4 to extra-large same volume size now
we've got double the bandwidth so we can
do 125 megabytes a second much better
match for that volume type you know we
can actually get to where we can almost
put full throughput to that volume but
it can take so pay attention to what you
want to push through your volumes and
how much actual network bandwidth you
have so here we see a full 10 so an m4
16 x large has 10 full gigs of EBS
bandwidth available to it so you can
push 1250 megabytes a second of data to
EBS so if you just put 18 terabyte st1
volume that does a max burst of 500 you
got a lot of bandwidth left over so
that's where striping starts to come
into play and rating raid 0 we're going
to attach multiple volumes and be able
to push against all of them and get a
collective throughput amount for all the
volumes so when should you consider
rating when the storage requirements
greater than 16 terabytes it's obviously
the max size for a single volume when
the throughput requirements are greater
than 500 that's again the max for the
st14 it's a throughput or I ops on I ops
and if your office requirements are
greater than 20,000 at 16k you're going
to need more than one volume
but what we don't recommend is rating
for redundancy so here we see sending
down to a raid 0 set we talked about the
replicas you're basically emulating what
a raid 10 would do right you have a
replicated copy of every block that
you're sending down to your raid 0 but
you're not paying for the two times the
storage which is what you would do with
a raid 10 so that's why we say we avoid
raid for redundancy data is already
replicated here if you're doing a raid
one you're having the available EBS
bandwidth available to your volume
because you're sending everything down
twice and same with something like a
raid 5 or 6 all that parity data is
taking up your eye ops taking up your
network bandwidth a few things
unreliability so instance failure if an
instance fails and EBS volume is
attached to it your volume is persistent
still in doors outside the life of the
instance you know obviously attach it to
another instance and get access to your
data but there's also a feature called
ec2 auto recovery that is enabled by EBS
which is a much better option for
recovering instance failures so you have
a cloud watch metrics on a per instance
basis so it's called status check failed
system and this is a rollup of all kinds
of different health checks that ec2 is
doing on your behalf to validate the
health of both the system and your
instance and if the system fails and
this health check fails you can choose a
recovery action within cloud watch so on
that alarm what action would you like to
trigger it's called recover and we will
migrate that instance to new hardware
automatically recover that instance and
it will have all the characteristics
that that instance has so whether that's
the IP addresses the instance ID the
volume mounts everything will be the
same and that's supported on any of our
modern generation instance types that
are EBS only storage
and what about if you terminate your
instance what happens to your volume
that completely depends upon the Delete
on termination flag that you set on
either instance launch or volume
creation so if you create a volume
outside of an instance launch the Delete
on termination flag is set to false
which means if the instance that it's
attached to is terminated EBS volume
endures if however that flag is set to
true which is the default for any volume
that you launch with an instance so boot
volumes or if you attach a bunch of data
volumes to an instance when you actually
launch it the flag by default will be
set to true those volumes will go with
the instance itself which is actually a
good point of housekeeping because I see
a lot of customers who launched volumes
outside of instance creations and they
have a lot of volumes just sitting out
there that aren't doing anything and
aren't attached and a lot of it is
because they haven't set these flags so
it's a good point of housekeeping to pay
attention and make sure that the volumes
that are out there and unattached are
ones that you actually want to be out
there what about taking snapshots so a
few best practices about snapshots and
this is this is really the difference
between crash consistency versus
application consistency so you know by
default if you pull the virtual plug on
your instances with EBS you will still
have crash consents to see as long as
you're using a journal file system which
I hope most of you are so this is how
you get these are best practices for
getting application consistency so this
is all the caches everything in the file
system and application that's not yet
committed to disk that you would lose if
the plug was pulled so for example on a
database you flush you lock the tables
you clear out the database caches on a
file system you sink and fs freeze it
all do all these things before you
actually take a snapshot so that you are
guaranteed that everything that's in
cash in state and memory has been
flushed to disk before you take your
snapshot and when you when you issue
that create snapshot API you'll get an
answer back within a few seconds so you
only have two FS freeze for
just a second or two before you get back
in okay from the API call you're good to
go from then you don't you don't have to
wait for the actual transfer of data to
s3 to complete the depending it will
stay in a pending state the snapshot but
you can go ahead and keep using the
volume as soon as that creates snapshot
API returns a 200 success windows is a
little different because NTFS does not
have an equivalent file system freeze so
it does have a sink that's available out
there in sysinternals you can download a
sink equivalent but really it's it's all
about VSS so volume Shadow Copy Service
is is is Microsoft's technology for
doing their own brand of snapshots so
what we recommend is is what you saw
within for the case study is attaching
dedicated backup volumes for your
windows backups all of Windows you know
whether it's exchange or sequel server
they all support VSS based backups
natively so the idea is that you you use
those native windows backup utilities to
create your backups you store those
backups on the EBS volume and then you
snap shot that backup EBS for you so
here you see here we've dedicated TBS
volume just for backups backups are sent
to that volume and that's what we
snapshot so what about initializing a
volume so a new EBS volume you just
attach it and it's ready to go the
performance characteristics there's
nothing you have to do to get to the
full volume performance it's ready to go
out of the box but if you're creating a
volume from a snapshot we obviously have
to get that data from s3 to the new
volume so there's going to be a latency
impact there because you might be
hitting blocks that haven't arrived yet
so there is a lazy load process where if
you do try to access a block on the
device that's not there yet it'll get
queued to the front but you're obviously
still going to get a latency impact
before it actually arrives so we do
recommend if you're generating a new
volume from a snapshot and you do want
full performance out of that volume as
fast as
able to initialize first so how do you
actually initialize so we recommend a
random read across volumes and here's
the file that we recommend so we
recommend file over something like DD if
I was multi-threaded it's also a lot
more tunable so random going back to the
you know that the the split logical
volume across a lot of physical physical
blocks across many devices if you
randomize that you can you can bring
that parallel nature of the volume
itself to bear if you're running a
sequential initialization you're just
going to hit each of those along the
line you're not going to take advantage
of the fact that this is a distributed
system and all that stuff can come at
you in parallel fashion so you can play
with the block size 128 is kind of a
compromise between file running a really
long time versus your data already being
there so what I always recommend is
watch the latency volume characteristics
so the cloud watch latency curve for the
volume while you're recommending your
file so you don't necessarily need to
run your Phi 0 to completion if you're
watching the latency curve and you see
that it's starting to flatline which
means everything all your data is start
is there on the disk so you're not
having to wait for the latency impact of
a new block to come down from s3 didn't
stop the file you're done and you can
play with that block size to see what
your optimal initialisation block size
might be for your for your volume ok
what about automating snapshots
obviously customers agenor eight
thousands and thousands of snapshots you
know managing them life cycle of them
expiring them keeping track of them can
be a hassle so here's a quick idea of
how to take a number of AWS tools to
create a framework for lifecycle
management of snapshots so it's based
off of a few key ingredients so lambda
our ec2 run command which is a way to
distribute system commands to all your
instances to whether that's bash scripts
that you want to run powershell scripts
it allows a centralized method of sin
those commands to all your instances if
you haven't heard of run command as a
link for it and then robust used of
tagging to actually drive all the logic
of this workflow so we start with the
instance and we put a couple of tag tags
on the instance itself one back knee up
this is a backup where the instance and
to any snapshots you take of my volumes
here's the retention I would like for
those volumes we have a scheduled lambda
function that's going to run every day
it's going to search for all those
instances that are tagged back up it's
going to use ec to run to send all of
those good best practice snapshotting
commands that i mentioned earlier to qui
us the filesystem make sure it's ready
and take good snapshots and then
obviously snapshot all the volumes and
in the process it's going to compute the
expiration date of those volumes and
slap that tag onto the vault under the
snapshot itself so the snapshot will now
have a tag that says expire me on a
certain date now on the opposite end for
the actual lifestyle cycle expiration we
have a separate lambda function that's
going to go out and look every day for
tags of expiration for that day and it's
going to delete this so very simple to
lambda functions and a few tags to do
some very robust house cleaning of your
snapshots so I hope that sounds useful
yeah there it is we have my team put up
a prototype check it out let us know
what you think
alright last but not least a quick best
practice around encryption so I
mentioned encryption is checkbox very
easy to do on your volume there's one
thing that I would recommend though and
that is not going with the default which
is to use the default AWS EVS master key
you always recommend to create your own
customer managed key instead of using
the default he gives you a lot more
control and why is that so this is a
real quick how you create your own
customer manage key just go into I am
console Identity and Access Management
corruption keys create a new wait KMS
master key name it whatever you want I
name this one need BS master because
that's what I'm going to use it for and
by using your own key you get a lot more
control about how the key is used so you
get to define the rotation policy for
that key you get to enable cloud watch
auditing so you can tell who is using it
what they're using it for and you can
control who can use it and who can use
it for what you know you might want one
team to use it for encryption and one
team to be able to use it for decryption
and obviously who can actually
administer the key so these options
would not be possible if you went with
just the default key so here you see a
we're back at the checkbox encryption
instead I've changed the master key to
be the one that I just created for
myself and how does this actually work
so we use a process called envelope
encryption so this is a hierarchy of
encryption for EBS so the master key
that you just created is stored in our
key management system it never leaves
the key management system but what it
does do is allow you to individually
encrypt one data key per volume so every
volume has its own unique data key that
is envelope encrypted by the master key
and then stored as metadata in the
volume itself so that's double encrypted
data key and the metadata of the volume
when you actually want to mount the
volume and use it the KMS service is
call
again to decrypt that key from metadata
and then that decrypted key is stored in
the memory of the actual instance you're
trying to mount the volume on so now
you're actually able to access and use
the volume decrypt and encrypt the data
on the volume with the key and now why
do why would we do this obviously it
limits the exposure risk so if there's
any key that's for some reason
compromised it's it's contained the
blast radius is a single volume it's not
your entire BBS inventory the
performance is obviously a huge win
because the encryption is being done in
memory and the instance itself where the
where the data is you're not shipping
data across the wire back and forth 2
kms to encrypt bulk data and it
simplifies your key management you have
one master key that can encrypt any
number of data keys and that's it thank
you very much i really appreciate time